[MUSIC PLAYING]
For six years, the University of
Maryland's Business School
has been sending its MBA
students to prison for a
scared straight field trip
in white collar crime.
Suppose your boss asks, "can't
you fudge the financials?
Can't you pick up a million
dollars so we can do this?"
And your answer should be
unequivocally, absolutely, no.
Just say no, advises former
developer Daniel Colton or you
may wind up like him, serving
a three-year sentence for
conspiracy.
His audience, students just
days away from entering a
business world where morals
may be looser than ever.
The big joke is that business
ethics is an oxymoron, i.e.,
you can't simply talk about
ethics when you're talking
about business.
There are none.
Barbara Toffler is a Professor
of Business Ethics and thus
thinks it isn't a contradiction
in terms, though
she admits stock scams like the
ones that have made Enron
a household name are as old
as the market itself.
Consider this poem.
Some in clandestine companies
combine; Erect new stocks to
trade beyond the line; With air
and empty names beguile
the town, And raise new credits
first, then cry 'em
down; Divide the empty nothing
into shares, and set the crowd
together by the ears.
That's Daniel Defoe, of Robinson
Crusoe fame, writing
in the early 1700's.
Here's the French artist Daumier
in the mid-1800's
depicting a speculator in the
stock market planting false
rumors to manipulate prices.
And we're all old enough to
remember the insider trading
and junk bond scandals of the
late 1900's starring Ivan
Boesky, Mike Milken
and the like.
But Barbara Toffler thinks
ethics now are
actually worse than ever.
At least in the 1980's,
she says,
"It was a big boy's game.
And in fact, much of the history
of unethical behavior,
if you will, in business has
been kind of a big boy's
game."
So in a sense, it was them
against themselves.
Exactly.
And obviously, stock prices
were affected.
Obviously, the stock market
was affected.
Obviously, the institutional
and the individual investor
were affected.
But we did not have the kind
of impact on you and me and
the general population
that we now do.
Where more vulnerable investors
are the ones getting
disproportionately hurt, like
the blue collar phone workers
we interviewed recently
at Global Crossing.
The modern business ethics
industry was born in the late
70's, part of the
post-Watergate reform movement.
Business ethics became so hot,
a firm like Arthur Andersen--
yes, that Arthur Andersen--
spent millions to be identified
with the topic,
making and distributing
videotapes to explain why
morality was vital to US
corporate success.
Here's one of their stars, Stew
Leonard, Sr., CEO of a
discount dairy chain.
The most important single
fundamental thing of success
in business is to build your
house on a solid foundation of
integrity, of a solid foundation
of ethics.
One hint that things
were getting worse.
Though Andersen hired Barbara
Toffler in 1995, it was to
help them make money, not
clean up their act.
They hired me to sell
services to clients.
They didn't hire me to do work
with them internally.
I was hired to set up a
consulting practice in ethics
and responsible business
practices.
I was not hired to do internal
work at Arthur Andersen.
Did you ever expect that Arthur
Andersen's internal
culture would be at odds with
what you were trying to teach?
I learned that as I was trying
to sell services and found
people asking me if Arthur
Andersen was doing internally
those things that I was trying
to sell to them.
And they weren't.
Meanwhile, the ethics of Arthur
Andersen, once the
purest of pure auditors,
sank to new lows.
Why?
Well perhaps we should use the
famous words of Watergate.
Follow the money.
Or as white-collar criminal
Daniel Colton puts it,
"Money is the hugest intoxicant
there is. "
Barbara Toffler says that
intoxicant became the drink of
choice, even for the top
accounting firms.
Everybody was making money.
They were jumping on
the bandwagon.
They forgot what they were
supposed to be doing.
They forgot that they
were watchdogs.
They forgot they were protectors
of the investor.
And they became hotshot firms.
We're a big name, we can play
with the big boys and we
can make big money.
And they did start
making big money.
So they too were seduced.
I'll honest with you.
I stayed at Arthur Andersen
probably longer than I would
have, because I liked the
money that I was making.
By the late 90's, Andersen's
ethics consulting had petered
out for lack of clients.
And Anderson's ethics tapes,
despite their lofty ambitions
and earnest host, don't seem
to have had much impact.
Over the years, our family, our
religion, our community
and schools have helped
to shape our values.
Thou shalt not steal.
But maybe it's a good thing that
these tapes never became
best sellers, seeing as how the
one with Stu Leonard might
be a better guide to
sin than sincerity.
The people that look for the
short cut, the prisons are
filled with them.
But just two years after this
tape was sent to schools all
over the country, Stew Leonard,
Sr. pleaded guilty to
skimming $17 million in profits,
much of which he
carried, the government
reported, on tens if not
hundreds of trips to St. Martin
in the Caribbean, in
amounts ranging from $10,000
to upwards of $250,000, in
suitcases or even wrapped
as baby gifts.
It was the largest tax fraud
in Connecticut history, and
Leonard was sentenced to
52 months in prison.
Two brothers-in-law received
sentences.
Son Stew, Jr., the store's
president, also admitted
involvement but was granted
immunity as part of his dad's
plea bargain, which makes the
ethical rule of thumb with
which this tape ends
almost surreal.
Would the boy you were be proud
of the man you are?
And I would say that the boy I
was would be proud of the man
I am and I would wish
that on anyone.
If my dad were alive today, he
would say, "Atta boy, Stew."
Today, Leonard is out
of jail and Stew
Leonard's chain is expanding.
If any stigma remains,
it hasn't
seemed to hurt business.
But the biggest surprise may be
that anyone did jail time
at all, because according to
Justice Department data US
attorneys prosecuted only 187
defendants over the last
decade for white
collar crimes.
And while 142 were found
guilty, a healthy 76%
conviction rate, only 87 did
time, usually at a minimum
security so called "Club Fed.
" Attorney Jake Szymanski
believes lenient sentencing
has helped
create the current climate.
There needs to be some serious
jail time for analysts who are
caught committing fraud,
CEOs that are
looting their companies.
until.
We send somebody away for a long
period of time in a real
prison, nothing is
going to change.
Now Szymanski used to represent
defendants.
I was revolted by my clients.
I didn't like going to work and
doing what I was doing,
getting brokerage firms
away with murder.
And it got to me.
So in 1998, Szymanski
switched sides.
I am now representing public
customers in claims against
major Wall Street firms,
like Merrill
Lynch and Smith Barney.
And unfortunately, I have seen
at major Wall Street firms the
same type of boiler room tactics
that I saw in the '90s
at these other firms.
This is a Business Ethics class
for MBA students at
Babson College in Wellesley,
Massachusetts.
If they're committing fraud,
that's a crime.
And that's punishable
by five years, ten
years, fifteen years.
If you go and you punish people
just because the stock
ended up tanking and the
market ended up not
performing, then you
go punishing
people for taking risks.
But I think where we get into
trouble and firms should pay
the price are when there's
ulterior motives and there's
other funding going
on by the company.
After several hours of heated,
knowledgeable debate, I asked
whether they would have touted
stocks they didn't believe in.
How many would have knuckled
under, essentially?
Not a single hand went up.
But then one student suggested
pushing the
hypothetical a bit further.
So if you ask this question
again, how many people would
put that buy if it got them
$20 million in the bank, I
think you'd see a lot
of hands go up.
$20 million for one buy
recommendation.
How many people?
Honestly, now.
Honest answer.
The class' professor had been
there for the vote.
The Reverend Tom Sullivan is
a Presbyterian minister.
What would Jesus have
thought of it?
[LAUGHTER]
Jesus would have said, "oh come
on, you can't do that.
And you know you can't do it."
He would have been a good Jew
in saying that.
He'd be a good Christian
He'd be a good Hindu, he'd be
a good Buddhist. Nobody who
takes any kind of spiritual
values seriously is going to
say, oh yeah, that's fine.
Indeed, spiritual values
may explain the
results of one last vote.
How many of you would imagine
that your parents think that
your generation is less
ethical than theirs?
Every single one of you.
Now not everyone thinks
we're going to
hell in a hand basket.
Ed Petrie, who runs the nation's
largest group of
in-house corporate ethics
officers, says that in some
areas ethical standards
have improved.
Conflict of interest inside the
organization, gifts and
gratuities, time charging,
sexual harassment issues,
diversity issues.
Vast improvement on those
fronts inside the
organization.
But nobody was paying much
attention to things like
corporate governance, reporting
your financial
statements.
Well, I won't say people weren't
paying attention to
them, but part of the problem
is that the expectations are
much higher than they
used to be.
And you also have far more
employees who are willing to
come forward with allegations.
And you have the public, who is
looking and eager to hold
companies to a higher standard
and want them to be
accountable.
But is corporate America
responding by hiring ethicists
like Barbara Toffler?
Do I have a lot of work as a
business ethics consultant?
No.
Instead, Toffler is writing a
book on her years at Arthur
Andersen and teaching ethics at
Columbia Business School.
Easier perhaps than teaching
them the real world of recent
years, since in economic terms
the bigger the payoffs became
for playing fast and loose, the
greater the cost of being
ethical in terms of risks not
taken, opportunities foregone.
Of course that's true of any
boom, not just this one,
suggesting that in the end
business ethics may simply be
at one of its cyclical ebbs.
But whether we've hit new lows
or not, Daniel Colton's words
ring equally true.
Please, please be vigilant, be
careful, be honest, be open.
Do not expose yourself to
these kinds of dangers.
Words easier to say than to live
by, it seems, when you
get down to business.
Finally tonight, business
ethics.
Enron, Andersen, Global
Crossing,
Tyco, and now, Worldcom.
Our business correspondent, Paul
Solomon of WGBH Boston,
has been looking into these
recent scandals of cooked
books and other corporate
misdoings.
Here's part two of his series,
A Talk with Five Veteran
Business Journalists.
It was conducted before the
most recent Worldcom news
Thank you all for coming.
First question.
Has American business hit some
kind of ethical ebb?
Where are the sounds of the
tumbrils rolling through the
cobblestone streets to
the guillotines.
Of course it has.
JP Morgan--
Loyal PBS viewers will recognize
the first journalist
as the eponymous host of Adam
Smith's Money World.
Now we've seen famous firms
eager to sell themselves out
just to make this
year's numbers.
There is an old line that the
four most dangerous words on
Wall Street are, "this time,
it's different."
Next, Allan Sloane, financial
writer for Newsweek.
We're not in any ethical ebb.
What you're seeing now
is what's been
going on for years.
Now it's only surfaced.
It's not that things are worse
now than they were.
It's that you're seeing
how bad they were.
The question is, what is the
quality of our miscreants
versus the miscreants
of yesteryear?
And I submit to you that ours
are ever so much worse.
Jim Grant was with Barron's in
the 1970's, and now writes and
edits Grant's Interest
Rate Observer.
I'm not sure that people were
nobler or more honest in the
past. I dare way
they were not.
But I think the standards of
behavior were better on Wall
Street and in finance.
One of my readers has suggested
the Wheel of
Misfortune.
Andy Tobias, personal finance
writer since 1970.
White collar criminals would get
the trials that they now
get, and every so often
someone is convicted.
But then they go to the
Wheel of Misfortune.
And if you're unlucky and you're
the tenth or the twenty
second or whatever number it is,
you get the death penalty.
Now let's say to make it
actually a little bit less
silly, you get some serious
prison where you don't get to
play tennis and you don't have
a phone in your room, and you
don't have a double bed.
I want to take it more back to
executive compensation and
stock options and that
kind of thing.
Carol Loomis started covering
business for
Fortune magazine in 1954.
But I believe that much of this
bad behavior is tied to
what I have called in the past,
the madness of executive
compensation.
And to the arrogance that sort
of comes out of that, where
the guys think they
can do anything.
And I say, guys, advisedly,
because there aren't many of
my sex in this.
Well the sense I get is that
everyone, or many people in
the public, are outraged but
everybody was doing it.
Am I wrong?
What I'm wondering is,
why aren't the
American people angrier?
Will we see some of this anger
in the months to come?
How do they exhibit the anger,
if they are angry?
They can withdraw
from the market.
And I think we are indeed
seeing some of that.
But I don't think we have seen
the kind of withdrawal from
the market that yet says that
we're going to burn everybody
who's involved here
at the guillotine.
I think the anger is going to
come from people who thought
they had paid for their
retirement.
After all, we had a big move to
the 401(K)s, and we had--
in order to get the pension
obligations off the company's
expense sheet.
So we moved the people in.
And if you're in your own
company stock, and the company
is Enron, you've lost
your pension.
And even in those companies that
are not Enron, many of
them have very desiccated
looking 401(K)s.
Well, people-- on the upside,
no one was complaining when
things got so unrealistic and
people thought they could
retire young because the
market was going
to go up 15% a year.
Maybe one of the reasons the
outrage isn't quite what it
will be if things keep going is
that, to a certain extent,
people somehow know that some
of this wasn't real.
They knew some of this
wasn't real.
But I think people
will go to jail.
I think people should
go to jail.
And I think a certain number of
people are outraged enough
that they would like
to see that.
I'm not quite as convinced that
sending a few of these
people to jail will kill the
wrongdoing out there.
We saw Michael Milken go to
jail, and that doesn't seem to
have done much at all.
The question is--
you don't have to shoot them,
you have to scare the others.
It takes a long time for
people to go to jail.
It takes a long time
to get indictments.
Look at this fellow, Kozlowski
from Tyco.
The company goes offshore a few
years ago, ducks out on
probably by now a billion
dollars of federal income tax,
and nobody cares.
New York state gets him for a
million dollars of sales tax
personally, and he's criminally
indicted.
The likes of Kozlowski are
reminders that in any capital
society, there is an implicit
social contract between the
rich and the others.
And the idea is that the rich
can get as rich as they like,
as long as the poor can
also try to get rich.
But when there is a breach of
the contract, when the rich
take what is not theirs,
there is a sense that
something is wrong and.
And the result is that envy
and avarice meet head on.
And that is what I think we're
looking at socially with the
contemporary crop of bad guys.
It's one wishes one had lived
in the Coolidge boom.
It's a lot easier to cheat now
than it used to be, I think.
It used to be if you wanted to
make up phony numbers, you had
to sit, the numbers had to add
up across and down, you needed
imagination.
Now with the spreadsheet,
you're just pushing your
conclusions, you work backwards
to your assumptions,
you get the accountants
to sign anything.
And then it all gets
disseminated
in about three seconds.
And what we're seeing now is
not what's happening now.
We're seeing now what happened
three and five
and seven years ago.
That surface economy.
Right, it's a new economy
of frauds.
Another factor is the multiplier
in the bubble
economy was so much greater.
That is, everything went
up so much more.
You could have a company--
there are always little
companies coming out that
weren't worth very much, but
you couldn't have them be
worth $5 billion, $10 billion,
the day they came out, when
they still have no earnings
and no earning power.
That didn't happen--
--or revenues.
--or revenues, or anything.
In other words, this was the
biggest boom in fiction since
Dickens and Thackeray in the
mid-nineteenth century.
The legacy of a boom is excess
in all forms. During the great
bubble years, the late
90's, capital was
virtually free to takers.
You signed up an investment bank
and basically you funded
your enterprise.
People availed themselves
of it.
They built stuff.
They built to excess.
And the excess weighs
on an economy.
When when there's too
much investment,
people produce too much.
They produce too much at
uneconomic margins.
They drive out competitors who
haven't got free capital
behind them.
The result is a kind of a
chronic low level of virus in
the economy.
And people talk about
stagnation.
Japan has been sitting in the
soup for about a decade.
It too had a bubble.
It refused to clear
the debris.
It wouldn't let markets work.
It wouldn't mark things down.
And lo and behold, it's
still struggling.
But you explain it
the way Jim does.
That is that a bubble, or period
of euphoria, inevitably
brings with it weird,
aberrant behavior.
You don't see the bones on the
beach 'til the tide goes out.
And what you're seeing now is
the bones on the beach.
There's more to come.
I've always heard that you
never know who's swimming
naked 'til the tide goes out.
Which I like much better
than the bones.
Ever since the SEC came into
being, we've had an
expectation that the markets
supposedly are working well
under a strong regulatory
scheme.
And so you don't expect the
kind of thing that is
happening today.
And also, I think
it's very broad.
To borrow a line from Warren
Buffett, the people who are
engaging in bad behavior today
are people that you would be
willing to have marry your
daughter, or be a trustee of
your trust. But there isn't--
these people are accepting
that it's OK to do this
managing the books and doing
anything to produce the kind
of earnings that is desired.
My question is, here are great
firms like Morgan Stanley and
Merrill Lynch, and they are
paying people $15 million a
year for a product that
they know is not
really first class.
And if they have any sense of
history, it's going to lose a
lot of people a lot of money.
But it will make money
this quarter.
And so that's why they do it.
It's a kind of myopia,
that is terrifying.
I don't know what the
repercussions should be for
someone like that.
But a lifelong of happy,
repercussion-free retirement?
I don't think so.
Would you feel the same if they
were making $200,000 a
year, instead of $15 million?
Well I think--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
less.
But you know, for not being paid
much, you figure maybe
they're doing it to preserve
their job or to try to somehow
pay for their child's bad leg.
But for $15 million, you figure
that they're doing it
because they want to be
rich beyond imagining.
So it was just a question of a
screwed up set of incentives?
Wall Street has never
been a holy place.
Wall Street is always greedy.
It's the nature of the beast.
What happened was, there was
far more money around than
ever, the boom was
greater than ever.
And largely because of the
Internet, and partly because
certain members of my profession
fell for this
nonsense or promoted some of
these people who shouldn't
have been allowed out without
keepers, you had this
irrational boom, this idea that
everybody can get rich.
All of us here, all
of us panelists,
knew this wasn't true.
But you'd raise your voice, it
didn't make any difference.
It was like madness and it
burned out about 2000, and now
the hunt is on for villains.
Thank you all very much.
Today it was Xerox and questions
over its accounting.
The scandals hitting corporate
America continue to unravel
and our business correspondent,
Paul Solomon of
WGBH Boston, continues to shed
some light on them for us.
Here's part three of his series
on Money and Ethics.
This one focuses on
the behavior of
investment stock analysts.
I'm looking at your portfolio
right now.
You've got to buy.
A new ad for discount broker
Charles Schwab, playing off
one of the year's top
business scandals.
I think you should buy.
It's a buy.
Buy it.
Just buy.
It's a no brainer.
I'd sell.
Did I say sell?
No, no, I meant buy, buy, yes.
The ad mocks Wall Street firms
touting stocks not because
they like the companies, but
because they were getting paid
to hype them, despite
misgivings
documented in their emails.
This is only a sample of some of
the communications revealed
in our investigation.
New York Attorney General Eliot
Spitzer has made a name
for himself by going after Wall
Street, getting Merrill
Lynch to pay a $100
million fine for
having misled investors.
The motive was investment
banking fees and enormous
personal compensation
for the analysts.
In the process, an untold number
of people were left to
rely on stock ratings the
analysts themselves didn't
believe, and there's
no telling how much
they lost as a result.
Merrill has also promised
reforms to prevent such abuses
in the future.
But several questions remain.
Why did so many analysts
become stock shills?
And why did so few of us seem
to notice until now?
We start in good old PBS fashion
with a bit of history,
and a good old PBS celebrity.
The host of Adam Smith's Money
World started as a stock
analyst in 1960 at
a modest salary.
It was barely $15,000 a year,
and it was a kind of like a
treasure hunt.
The field wasn't a very crowded
And you'd go out and
you'd see the competitors of a
company, you'd see the people
that the company sold to, you'd
see the company that the
people who supplied the company
with its goods.
Only at the very end would you
go to see the company itself.
Now the title stock analyst
describes the job, analyzing
companies, their revenues,
profits, their business, so
that investors can decide
whether or not
to buy their stock.
It was basically a search
for the truth.
Money manager Alan Benasuli
describes what he was looking
for as an analyst in
1966, fresh from
Harvard Business School.
Is it true that the ratings
are going to be rising, as
they tell us they will?
If they're not, why
will they not?
And what will be the impact
on the price of the stock,
assuming we are right
and they're wrong?
And Benasuli was right enough to
be named airline analyst of
the year six times by
Institutional Investor magazine.
Its readers were the big money
managers at banks, insurance
companies, pension funds
and the like.
The more helpful they found
Benasuli's analysis, the more
stock trades they funneled
through his firm, which
charged hefty commissions fixed
at a sizable percentage
of the trade's total value.
The firm then paid the analyst
from those commissions since,
after all, he'd helped
bring them in.
In other words, the way you
got paid was sort of
indirectly, in that the people
who read your reports and
trusted them would buy or sell
stocks through your firm.
That is correct.
That was called soft dollars
or commissions, general
commissions.
And then that disappeared.
The disappearance began on May
1, 1975, known forever on Wall
Street as May Day, the day the
government forced Wall Street
to compete on price instead
of charging fixed stock
commissions.
And not surprisingly,
commissions promptly plummeted.
The going rate went very quickly
to twenty cents, and
ten cents, and six cents
per share, which
is what it is today.
And therefore, the firms were in
their research business had
to find ways to get paid.
The way they found to get paid
in the 80s was investment
banking, the new profit center
of the old brokerage houses.
Investment bankers did mergers
and acquisitions, took
companies public by selling
millions of dollars of their
stock in IPOs, initial
public offerings.
The commissions on these
deals were enormous.
Analysts were now valuable to
the extent they could help the
investment bankers.
In the early 90s, just as the
system was changing, analyst
Tom Brown switched brokerage
firms and joined DLJ.
Their compensation system was
every quarter, you got a check
for any investment banking
transaction
that you helped with.
At the time, Brown was
considered Wall Street's top
bank analyst, renowned
for his research.
But he was paid only a fourth as
much as a hot new colleague
who was much more involved in
investment banking deals.
Brown's epiphany, he says, came
on the day his colleague
addressed a DLJ analysts
conference in
confessional mode.
And his line was, to work well
with selling deals that you
had to be able to say, "Father
forgive me, for I have
sinned." And he went on to say
that the way you sold deals
was basically to lie and
exaggerate about
the company's prospects.
He said this to the
entire group?
That's what he said.
Nearly everyone played this
game, as an old college
classmate of mine told
me in January.
When I was in industry, and
I was a senior financial
executive at two New York Stock
Exchange companies, I
used to say to the analysts,
you want to be in the deal?
All right, we're going to
earn a $1.35 next year.
This is what each division
is going to make.
This is what the company
is going to do.
And if you write or say anything
different from what
I'm telling you, you won't
be in our next offering.
You mean your company, your bank
will not get a piece of
the action?
Right.
When I was in industry--
You would actually
say that to them?
Absolutely.
Why are you looking at
me like it's strange?
I wanted one story out there.
I wanted every analyst to
have the same story.
And if they weren't willing to
go along with exactly the way
I wanted that story managed,
I wouldn't
take their phone calls.
Look like people were listening
to you and buying on
your list.
It had a pretty good
day today.
You can see how within such a
system analysts helped inflate
the stock bubble.
We're forecasting 25% growth
this year, 30 % next, and 25%
the following year.
In the 60s, says Alan Benasuli,
he spent 90% of his
time on research.
And I would say that of my
recommendations, maybe 30% of
my universe were buys.
Benasuli says that by the 90s,
analysts were spending 10% of
their time on research, their
buy recommendations up to 98%.
Star internet analyst
Mary Meeker on
the wild tech sector.
It would seem then that the
new pay system turned the
analyst game and the internet
stock boom into something
deeply cynical.
Give us your quick picks.
What are the stocks to own?
Yahoo, Amazon and EBay.
But that ignores another
important element.
Boundless enthusiasm.
The economy was in recession.
Jack Hidary was an internet
entrepreneur who took his
company public in an
IPO in the 90s.
And though he auditioned many
investment banks and their
analysts, he says CEOs like him
were never thinking about
conflicts of interest.
You're not thinking
that at all.
No.
What you're really thinking
is, I'm excited, I want to
take my company public, I want
to raise capital for my
company so that we can then
expand our company.
That's what you're thinking.
And you think, oh, he
understands me.
Exactly.
He knows the space,
understands me, gets my company.
It was only after Hidary's
company crashed that he began
to realize how corrupted the
system had become, how
compromised analysts were.
Traditional research goes to the
CEOs of companies and asks
them, how is your
company doing?
Well it turns out, most often
the answer is, pretty well.
What a surprise.
Yeah, what a surprise.
And so he decided to open Vista
Research, a new firm--
That did not have any banking,
any mergers and acquisitions
advisory work, any trading,
really just pure research.
And we only get paid by one
kind of company, the fund
manager, the investor.
We do not get paid by the
companies that we talk about.
So perhaps stock analysis
post-bubble will return to the
golden days of yesteryear,
assuming of course that
investors will actually pay
enough to fund extensive,
unbiased research.
Upgrading the stock
to a strong buy--
But if they do, it will be a
very different environment
from the one stock analysts have
grown into in the last
decade or two.
The younger analysts
particularly, they didn't know
anything else.
So they weren't around when the
analysts really did good,
hard research.
All they knew was promotion.
And that's what was so
distressing to see, is their
lack of concern about
the people who were
buying these deals.
They didn't care about
whether the
company actually succeeded.
They just wanted to do the
transaction, because that's
how they got paid.
Anybody ever take them aside and
say, hey you know, you've
got these other constituents,
that is to say the investors
you're giving advice to.
No, nobody ever talked
about that.
I was the odd man out.
Nobody on Wall Street ever
talked about that, nor did
they want Tom Brown to.
Even after he was fired back in
1998 for refusing, he says,
to tout questionable deals.
His severance pay discussions,
according to him, dragged on
for months because--
--in the whole negotiation, what
they wouldn't give up on
is that Tom Brown couldn't speak
to the media about his
departure from DLJ.
And for that, they were willing
to pay me half a
million dollars.
$500,000 just for
that one clause.
That's just for that clause.
DLJ's response, "such clauses
are common on Wall Street, and
Brown was fired for other
reasons." But the one
certainty, Tom Brown
refused the money.
Let's get back to our original
question, however.
Why did some analysts become
virtual shills?
Because the end of fixed high
commissions meant their
brokerage firms had to find
another way to pay them.
A way that proved so
lucrative, new
ethical norms took over.
And why did so few of us
squawk or even notice?
Perhaps because the system was
so lucrative for us as well.
Or as Allan Sloan of
Newsweek puts it--
--this has been going on
for at least 18 years.
And for the first 17,
nobody cared.
It didn't make any difference.
The only reason we're seeing
any of this now is that the
market has been in the
dumps for 27 months,
and people were screaming.
And perhaps more worrisomely,
they're not investing.
Two-thirds of investors say that
the conflict of interest
between research and banking
is holding back
the investment climate.
So the confidence of
the investor has
been lost in the system.
And the big picture here is that
unless we restore that
credibility, we're not going
to be able to get our
financial markets going again.
And if we don't, that would give
further impetus perhaps
to the furor over who helped
create the Wall Street bubble
in the first place.